README.md, before:

# Parallel text generator

![Schopenhauer 'Aphorismen' demo](/screenshots/germanDemo.png)

Given a .epub file, you can use this project to generate a parallel translation

## Prequesiteries: 
- Linux environment (native, WSL, ...)
- Bash shell
- .epub file
- Installed commands: pdf2txt, zip/unzip, ebook-convert, python, pandoc, git
- Web browser

## Step 1: preparations
Run the command `git clone https://github.com/baroxyton/parallel-translation-generator` to copy the code to your computer. Next, navigate into it using `cd parallel-translation-generator`. Copy the .epub book into this directory and lastly run `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install the dependencies. 
## Step 2: running it
run `python v2.py` and supervise the process. File paths requested can be provided relative or absolute. Note that you will need to translate a docx generated by the program in https://translate.google.com, so a modern browser with access to the file system is necessary.

# Explanation

How this project works: Each paragraph is marked with its unique ID and then the book is translated with the paragraph markings intact. By using these markings, each paragraph can be matched the two versions lastly can be merged in a table.

Commit message:

add note about old version

README.md, after:

# Parallel text generator

![Schopenhauer 'Aphorismen' demo](/screenshots/germanDemo.png)

Given a .epub file, you can use this project to generate a parallel translation

**Note: the old version gives the user more control, as it is much more manual: https://github.com/baroxyton/parallel-translation-generator/tree/fa3436509671ed33a6532ec5872ecaa5cadab3a9. It may be useful for troubleshooting when this script doesn't work as expected**

## Prequesiteries: 
- Linux environment (native, WSL, ...)
- Bash shell
- .epub file
- Installed commands: pdf2txt, zip/unzip, ebook-convert, python, pandoc, git
- Web browser

## Step 1: preparations
Run the command `git clone https://github.com/baroxyton/parallel-translation-generator` to copy the code to your computer. Next, navigate into it using `cd parallel-translation-generator`. Copy the .epub book into this directory and lastly run `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install the dependencies. 
## Step 2: running it
run `python v2.py` and supervise the process. File paths requested can be provided relative or absolute. Note that you will need to translate a docx generated by the program in https://translate.google.com, so a modern browser with access to the file system is necessary.

# Explanation

How this project works: Each paragraph is marked with its unique ID and then the book is translated with the paragraph markings intact. By using these markings, each paragraph can be matched the two versions lastly can be merged in a table.
